In this demonstration,
you will learn how to merge a branch back into the master branch.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, we have now the perspective of Julia.
Julia has checked out the master branch that you can see here in the status bar.
Also when I go to the Branches page of Team Explorer,
you can see that the master branch is bold.
Now let's go to the synchronization page of Team Explorer,
and let's click here on Fetch to check if there are any incoming commits.
Oh, here are 2 commits from Thomas on the master branch.
Julia can see here that Thomas has implemented the quit command
and that Thomas has merged Julia's help message.
Oh, what did he actually do here?
Let's double click this commit, and now you can see here the commit details.
You can see that Thomas changed the Program.cs file.
Let's right-click it and let's compare it with a previous version.
Julia can see that Thomas added the string coffee
shop that she had in her commit.
Beside this change, Julia can also see here a bit of code that she doesn't know.
Here is the string, write quit to exit application,
and the if statement to handle the quit command,
but these changes are not part of this commit.
So let's take a look at the previous commit.
Let's go back to the Team Explorer,
let's navigate back to the Synchronization page,
and let's double-click here the second commit.
Now let's right-click on the Program.cs file and let's compare with previous.
Here you can see that Thomas has added this write
quit to exit application string,
and that he has added this if statement to handle the
quit string from the command line.
Now let's go back to the Team Explorer,
and let's navigate back to the Synchronization page.
As you know, the user Thomas did these two commits in the previous module.
Now let's click on Pull to pull these two commits
into Julia's local master branch.
Let's go now to the Branches page of Team Explorer.
Let's open up remotes/origin,
and here Julia can also see the coffeeShopCommands branch.
If you don't see the latest branches here,
you need to pull the changes from the remote repository.
Now let's assume you want to see what Thomas is working on.
You can right-click this remote branch and check it out locally.
Alternatively,
you can just double click the remote branch to check it out locally.
Now you can see, we have here a local coffeeShopCommands branch.
Let's go to Solution Explorer and let's open up the Program.cs file.
Let's scroll down,
and here you can see the else block where Thomas
handles the coffee shop commands.
Now without using Team Explorer,
you can use the status bar to switch back to the master branch.
And you see, in the master branch, this else block does not exist.
Let's go back to the feature/coffeeShopCommands
branch and we get the else block.
Now Julia could work together with Thomas on that feature branch,
but instead, Julia will implement another feature.
She will implement now the feature that the coffee shops have also
the information about the paper cups in stock.
So let's go to Team Explorer and let's create here a new branch.
Let's call the branch feature/paperCupsInStock.
We don't want to branch off from Thomas's feature branch.
This is displayed here because we have checked out this branch.
So now let's select there the master branch.
This time,
let's keep this Checkout branch checkbox checked so that the
branch will be checked out after it was created.
Now let's click this Create Branch button.
Here we go, you can see our new local branch, paperCupsInStock is checked out.
You can also see this branch in the status bar.
Now if you don't want to work on Thomas's branch,
you can just right-click it, and you can delete that local branch.
Let's do this.
It's still here available in the remote repository.
Now let's work on our branch.
Let's go to the Solution Explorer and let's open up the CoffeeShop class.
Let's add here a new property of type int, and let's call it PaperCupsInStock.
Now let's go to the CoffeeShopDataProvider class and let's
ensure that we return data for that new property.
So here for Frankfurt, let's say that they have 350 paper cups in stock.
Let me press Ctrl+K+D to format this code.
Now let's say Freiburg has 250 paper cups in stock,
and let's say Munich has 427 paper cups in stock.
I press again Ctrl+K+D to format this document.
Now we provide the PaperCupsInStock data on all the three coffee shops.
Now let's commit this change to our feature branch.
Let's go to Team Explorer.
Let's navigate to the Changes page and let's enter here a commit message.
Add PaperCupsInStock property.
Here you can double check that you are on the right branch.
Now let's use here the drop-down, and let's select Commit All and Push.
Yes, I want to save these changes, and now you can see here the outgoing commit.
Now Julia successfully pushed the branch,
feature/paperCupsInStock to the remote repository.
Now let's assume that Julia is done with her feature and she
wants to merge it back to the master branch.
To do this, she just needs to go to the Branches page of Team Explorer.
Beside creating a new branch, you can also merge and rebase a branch.
So let's click here on Merge,
and you can see the target branch of the merge is the
branch that you have checked out.
But Julia wants to merge the feature
paperCupsInStock branch into the master branch.
So let's check out the master branch by double-clicking it here.
Now you can see we merge into the master branch.
Before you merge,
it's a good idea to check if you have the latest version of the master branch.
You can do this by going to the Synchronization page of Team Explorer,
or you just right-click it here,
then you select here Pull to get the latest version.
As you can see, our repository is already up to date.
So let's click again on Merge,
and now let's select our feature/paperCupsInStock
branch to merge this branch into master.
Here is a checkbox that the changes are automatically committed after the merge.
Let's uncheck this, and let's click the Merge button.
Now you can see here that a merge is in progress.
You can click on Abort to abort the merge.
If you would have conflicts in this merge,
you would see here also the conflicts like you saw it already
in the previous module when we merged the remote master
branch to the local master branch.
Now let's go to the Changes page of Team Explorer.
Here you can see the Staged Changes.
So now I could right-click here again CoffeeShop,
Compare with Unmodified,
and you can see that here is our new PaperCupsInStock property.
This looks good.
So let's enter here the commit message.
Let's call it Merge feature/paperCupsInStock.
And let's select here from the drop-down Commit Staged and Push.
Now you can see the two commits that go to the master branch.
Great!
We have successfully pushed our changes to master.
Now let's assume that Julia is done with her feature.
As she merged her feature branch into the master branch,
she can now safely delete her feature branch.
Let's go to the Branches page of Team Explorer.
Let's right-click here on the paperCupsInStock branch, and then select Delete.
Here in Team Explorer, you can also delete branches from the remote repository.
So let's right-click here on the remote PaperCupsInStock branch,
and let's select here Delete Branch From Remote.
Now Visual Studio asks me if I'm really sure that I
want to delete this remote branch.
Yes, of course,
we are sure because we just merged all the commits from
that branch to the master branch.
So let's click Yes.
Now you can see that the branch was also deleted from the remote repository.
So now with these paper cups in stock,
Julia wants to create a tag for that version. Let's see how to do this in the next clip.